# Model Properties (Efficiency etc.)

1. If data is highly heterogeneous, use DT. support-vector machines, linear regression, logistic regression, neural networks, and nearest neighbor methods require that the input features be numerical and scaled to similar ranges.
2. If you’ve to make a simple algo without computer: perceptron. 
3. Redundancy in the data. If the input features contain redundant information (e.g., highly correlated features), some learning algorithms (e.g., linear regression, logistic regression, and distance based methods) will perform poorly because of numerical instabilities. These problems can often be solved by imposing some form of regularization.
4. If each of the features makes an independent contribution to the output, then algorithms based on linear functions (e.g., linear regression, logistic regression, support-vector machines, naive Bayes) and distance functions (e.g., nearest neighbor methods, support-vector machines with Gaussian kernels) generally perform well. However, if there are complex interactions among features, then algorithms such as decision trees and neural networks work better, because they are specifically designed to discover these interactions.
5. Generative training algorithms are often simpler and more computationally efficient than discriminative training algorithms. In some cases, the solution can be computed in closed form as in naive Bayes and linear discriminant analysis.
6. KNN is very susceptible to overfitting due to the curse of dimensionality. Intuitively, we can think of even the closest neighbors being too far away in a high-dimensional space to give a good estimate. Regularization is one way to avoid overfitting. However, in models where regularization is not applicable, such as decision trees and KNN, we can use feature selection and dimensionality reduction techniques to help us avoid the curse of dimensionality.
7. For many learning algorithms, the test-time efficiency is governed by how many features are used for prediction. This is one reason decision trees tend to be among the fastest predictors: they only use a small number of features. Especially in cases where the actual computation of these features is expensive, cutting down on the number that are used at test time can yield huge gains in efficiency. Moreover, the amount of memory used to make predictions is also typically governed by the number of features. (Note: this is not true of kernel methods like support vector machines, in which the dominant cost is the number of support vectors.)